>> Scott Moss: So
we talked a little bit about routing.
We just did some catch alls,
some verbs, some paths.
We're gonna do like some sub routing and
all that fancy stuff next.
So routing, like I said with Express
you have flexible pattern matching,
handles parameters.
And it just handles, in your route
definitions, you can handle parameters,
but in the controllers you can also, you
have access to the query string as well.
You just don't define query strings in
the actual route definitions themselves.
Query strings aren't explicit,
so back to routing.
Express has multirouter support.
So I talked about, yeah,
we had that app, right?
And we declared routes on it with verbs,
but remember I said you can also do sub
routes and different paths that you
mount on, which is very flexible.
It allows you to like, here's the API
behind this and then here's like
authentication over here and
then here is like admin stuff over here.
So you can do that is really cool.
And then they don't really need
to know about each other at all,
they are completely isolated.
But they can also share
global littleware and
global configuration from the app router.
We also have static and
dynamic configuration.
So static configuration is
what we just did, right?
So we declare some routes here.
This is statically, you can also
declare stuff dynamically at run time.
It's really advanced, we will not
get to that, but you can do it.
Support for all HTTP verbs.
This only really applies to rest.
When we get to GraphQL nobody
cares about verbs anymore right?
So yeah, you got get, put,
options, delete, post.
Whatever the verb you got it.
Express has got it.
And it's order based so
what that means is if I were to set up
another route here, check this out.
If I were to say app.get this one, and
I were to say,
>> Scott Moss: If I were to do this and
I were to save it.
And then let's just start this up again.
>> [SOUND]
>> Scott Moss: Because I
did that one first [SOUND]
>> Scott Moss: It should respond first.
>> Scott Moss: Right first true,
that's because I declared that route
before I declared this catch all.
Order does matter in Express,
so keep that in mind.
This get for the index was declared
before this all on every route,
therefore when I did activate this path,
it's response was handled.
But I can show you, and
we will get to this like you can pass
the control of this to the next one.
So you can say, cool,
I want this to run first, but
I don't want it to be the one
that decides what goes back.
I'm gonna pass it on to
the next thing that matches.
And that's when we get into middleware,
so that's where it gets really crazy.
But we'll get there.
So yeah, order based,
>> Scott Moss: Cool.
So the thing about routing in
Express is that you can pretty much
do whatever you want.
At the end of the day,
there's literally nothing you can't do.
And that could be good or bad, because you
can develop all types of patterns that
could benefit you, but it also
doesn't really give you a constraint.
You might have patterns
that are just very wild.
You might have issues with
routes being resolved,
you might have issues about which middle
where is attaching to which route.
Because you can do everything its very
good practice to try to develop some type
of standards for your application,
before you start declaring your routes.
Something that I like to do, and that's
what we're gonna be doing here, is I like
to mount different routers on different
paths that have different purposes.
So let's say I'm building
an app that has an admin side,
it has a customer side where they have
an API, then it has an analytics side,
what I would do is for every single
one of those high level features,
it would be behind a different router.
And then they have their own
configuration associated with them.
Because if I'm exposing API for
my customers to use,
it's probably a different set of
authentication mechanisms that
I'm gonna use there then I would for
my admin APR or for my analytics APR.
So I'm going to mount them
behind different paths.
So for instance, for /API,
use this router, for /Analytics,
use this router, for
/whatever, use this router.
And that router has its own routes inside
of it, and that's what we're gonna see.
So I'm just gonna do a little
bit of demonstration on that and
then we're gonna jump right
into the next example.
So basically [COUGH] what you can do.
I'm just gonna do it right here.
So we have this app right?
And let's say I want to
make another router.
I can come in here and
I can say I want to make a apiRouter.
All right.
And with that I can just come in here and
I can say, express.Router.
Like this, with a capital R and evoke it.
And notice that I use
express.Router not app.
So just that right there
kind of tells you that,
this app router does not care
about this app right here.
We're not even using the same thing.
So they're completely
two different things.
What this apiRouter, is now,
I have a separate router,
I can attach routes to it just
like I did with this app.
So now that I have this
apiRouter I can say apiRouter.
I want you to respond to
a get request on index.
We'll get here in a minute.
And then what I wanna do is same thing,
I'm just gonna say res.json,
and I just gonna go like api: true, right?
So we got that.
Now, remember I said routes
are order based, right?
Can put order base, I just made new
router, I register a Handler for
the index path on the get verb for
that router.
And I did it before this one.
So if were to make a get
request to this path,
am I gonna see api: true or
am I gonna see first: true?
>> Group: first: true.
>> Scott Moss: Okay, wow.
And why is that?
>> Speaker 3: Their
router isn't listening.
It's not connected is it?
>> Scott Moss: It's not
connected exactly yeah.
I never, it just I didn't
even connect it to the app.
It's just here.
I just declared it but I need to like
associate it with this app because
remember by default they
have no association.
I just declared a router that
isn't connected with app.
Everything has to be connected
to the main app here.
The thing that's listening
which is this app.
So yeah, cool story, you declared a route,
but you didn't tell your app about it.
So that's the next thing we would
have to do, so to do that is,
it's an apiRouter, so
hey let's mount it on the API path.
So what I'll do down here, I'll say
app.use, and you can think of use as like,
it's almost the exact same thing as .all,
to be honest.
Use is more like when you do use your
pretty much are saying I'm going
to use middleware here and
not so much a final response.
app.all is like I'm gonna respond here but
they can pretty much be used synonymous.
There's a small difference, but
the difference is not that big.
So we're gonna say app.use.
And we're gonna say for
this path /api we want
to use the apiRouter.
So now when I go to,
when I make a request besides api,
it's gonna activate the apiRouter and
its routes which is index.
So this index is referencing
the index that is mounted on.
This is not the index of our app,
this is the index of the router.
And the router is mounted on the API.
So therefore, this route is /api.
So for instance, if I put a /thing here,
this full route is /api/thing.
Cuz it's mounted at API, so
we can actually test this out.
So let's do that.
>> Scott Moss: And then I'll come here.
I'm already listening.
I'm just gonna restart that, just in case.
>> Scott Moss: And then now if I go and
I run this command again with no API,
you see I still get first true.
I didn't hit the API, but
now when I say /api I get API true.
Right, cuz I hit the API.
And then if I go /api/whatever,
I'm not gonna get anything because,
I'm sorry, I'm gonna get okay false
because it hit right here, right.
This catch all is gonna prevent any 404.
No matter what I do, this catch
all's gonna respond, so right now my
API We'll never have a 404 because
there's always a catch all at the bottom.
Yes?
>> Speaker 4: Constap equals express,
would that also work if
you did express.router?
>> Scott Moss: Would what also work?
>> Speaker 4: Would the app run
if it was constap=express.router?
>> Scott Moss: No,
because you need to mount it.
Well you need to mount a router to
something that's eventually listening.
So if you made app a router, well,
you can't listen on a router, so
you wouldn't do anything.
It would execute and
it would exit immediately, right?
Cuz the reason our server's running
right now, the thing about node,
node what it does is it's asynchronous,
right?
So it will run your code, and then
anything that's async gets put in a task,
a queue.
And it's gonna come back as an executed.
When that queue is
emptied Node just exits.
There's nothing, there's no more
work to be done so it stops.
The reason why our code is still
running right now on our server
is because we are listening on a port.
There's always something to be done.
There's always something listening.
That event queue is always there.
So that's why it's there.
If we did what he's suggesting
there would be nothing listening.
Therefore, the code
would execute just fine.
And then it would just exit immediately.
Your script would be
done before you blink.
Nothing would happen.
But it'll execute the code,
just nothing will happen.
So yeah, eventually a router has to
be attached to some root app that is
listening to some port somewhere.
And that's how you get this to happen.
>> Speaker 5: Is it best practice to
break out your apiRouter into a separate
file and then import it?
>> Scott Moss: Yes.
>> Speaker 5: Because you said it's
still going to be order-based.
So you can set up the order of
this particular router or route,
the API Manage that separately,
import it here.
>> Scott Moss: Yep.
>> Speaker 5: Okay.
>> Scott Moss: That's
exactly what we're gonna do.
So I'm glad you're seeing that pattern,
cuz yep, you can pretty much see it, yeah.
Cuz you could imagine this apiRouter's
gonna have tons of routes,
tons of configurations.
And inside of it,
it might have its own subrouters.
For api/todos,
here's the to-do router, right?
And then there's so much configuration.
You you totally wanna Make sure you
don't put all that in one file.
One, cuz you're not gonna
be able to test it, two,
you're gonna have merge
conflicts everywhere, [LAUGH].
So yeah, totally don't do that.
And remember that order,
the whole thing about order
matters applies everywhere, right?
So if I had this apiRouter, and
I make another route on the apiRouter,
for a post on the same row,
then, I'm sorry hold on.
Lets do just another get for.
We'll see that one and
then what we'll do we'll say star here.
There we go.
>> Scott Moss: There we go.
So because I register the index of
the api route first before I register
the catch all, if I were to go
to /api/anything else, we should
see it respond with apiAll versus what
we did before which was okay true.
All right so let's try that one.
So if I go to api, api true.
If I go to api/ anything
else I should see apiAll.
All right, everybody follow me there?
Let's go back.
I set up a catchall.
So, let's diagram what's happening here,
on this route.
So, we come through.
We make a GET request to /.
Right, so we make a GET request to /.
What's gonna happen is express is
going to look It's gonna come in here.
It's gonna be like, okay, you're at /,
but then we're actually at /api.
So it's like okay, cool, you're at /api,
let me execute this router.
So now we're inside of this router.
So now express is up here.
And because the route that we hit was
just /api, and it was a GET request,
it actually stopped right here.
It was like,
cool this satisfies that, /api, root,
which is the route, get verb,
yeah cool, I'll execute that.
But then the next time we did GET, we set
/api/whatever, it did the same thing.
It came down as like,
okay, cool, api's here.
Activate that router Nope,
that's not satisfy that.
Okay, here we go we got the .all so
any verb, okay cool, any paths or anything
that is not this is any verb I'm going to
go ahead and run that, that's what happen.
Before when I get rid of this,
if I want to get rid of this the reason
to execute this one down here.
Is because it still comes in here,
that api, goes apiRouter.
It's like, I don't have anything for
apiRouter that happens here,
so I'm gonna go to the next route
that satisfies this request and
that's this one,
even though it's upper level.
It's still serial, it's still in order,
but it's nested, right?
This is all still in order.
This apiRouter is in front of this app.
And it has its own nested routes, but
it eventually comes out, it's a tree.
It comes out of that tree to the parent
and it goes back down, right?
It's a depth-first,
it does depth-first routing, right?
Not breadth-first.
So it's gonna go all the way
down to the root, and
be like, I don't know what I'm doing here.
Let me go back up, check some more,
go back up, check some more.
So it's depth first.
Anybody's who's ever done binary
searches or stuff like that,
it's a depth first versus a breath first.
The difference is breath first is like,
let me check everything
on this level first.
Before I go down one level, is like,
I'm gonna go all the way down
until I can go down anymore.
To the leaf.
Then I'm gonna come back up and
do it again, come back up and do it again.
And it's going to do that until it
figures out which one it finds.
So, that's what's happening here.